```
title: Android 腾讯 TIM 迁移 QQ 指北
date: 2024.04.07 18:21
tags: Note Android Linux
description: 跳车请注意
```

As we all know the QQ**NT** has been released for so many months, and it's not limited on desktop (electron based) but also on mobile platforms. The Android QQ 9.x is called QQNT.

TIM is the office variant of Tencent QQ, however it seems less maintenance now. TIM on Android is forked from legacy QQ. From my personal experience, QQNT is faster than TIM now.

For people who want to migrate from TIM to QQNT the certainly way is to use its built-in "Backup to PC" function, or the device transfer function. But:

- QQNT(Win) will reject to backup from TIM(Android), "the version is too low".

- QQNT(Android) will reject to migration chat history from TIM(Android), "the version is too low".

- TIM(Win) backup from TIM(Android) is terrible, very very slow, and maybe failed in the middle.

- TIM(Win) restore history to QQNT(Android) will lose "temporary chat" history. This point is unacceptable for me because I have many chat histories with my teachers which are so critical.

So in my practice the perfect way here.

First, make sure your device has [ROOT](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rooting_(Android)>) privilege,`adb shell` then `su` and `cd` to `/data/data/com.tencent.tim`. You can first make a backup if you want.

Second, install the last version of QQ 8.X (legacy, not QQNT). `ls -l com.tencent.mobileqq` to see the user and group. In my device it's `u0_a223 u0_a223`.

Third, `rm -rf com.tencent.mobileqq`, `mv com.tencent.tim com.tencent.mobileqq` then `chown +R u0_a223:u0_a223 com.tencent.mobileqq`. Now uninstall the TIM and start QQ. Expect to launch QQ without error.

Finally, install QQNT normally, it will perform message format upgrade from legacy QQ.

> sorry for english only because my IME is broken.
